---
layout: post
title: "Recording Macros for Super Efficiency"
---

Macros in Vim can be a great time saver, especially for complex and repetitive
line-editing tasks.
A macro is a way of recording a series of actions as a single command. I find this
especially useful when I need to make some formatting changes to a set of lines.
This is perhaps best illustrated by an example, but prior to that let us quickly
look at the syntax for recording and using macros in Vim.

Recording a macro is split into three steps:

1.  `q` followed by a letter to start recording. The letter can be any valid register
    of your choice, e.g. `m`. If successful you will see **recording** in the
    bottom left of the screen.
2.  Carry out whichever actions you require. This isn't constrained to just
    one line of actions, though often this is practical.
3.  Press `q` again to stop recording.

Using a macro is simply a case of typing `@` followed by the register
character chosen, `m` in the previous example.


# A brief example
An example may make the benefits of macros clearer. Let's say that we have
the following data in a file and we want to transform this into a CSV file. _This
chunk of data is from a wireless sensor network log file that really did need
converting to CSV._

    StandDev (ToF): 2260ps, Mean (ToF): 64037ps, Errors: 0
    StandDev (ToF): 2265ps, Mean (ToF): 66037ps, Errors: 0
    StandDev (ToF): 2184ps, Mean (ToF): 82858ps, Errors: 1
    StandDev (ToF): 3184ps, Mean (ToF): 82860ps, Errors: 1
    StandDev (ToF): 1439ps, Mean (ToF): 55893ps, Errors: 0
    StandDev (ToF): 2439ps, Mean (ToF): 75893ps, Errors: 3

We can change this to form part of a CSV file with a quick macro:

* Move to the first line we wish to edit (remember, the macro will capture all
  commands, so if you execute a move
  command in your macro it will happen on each run).
* Start recording, `qm`
* Execute our edit steps. This can be done in **many** ways. The example
  command sequence below prepares a single line by: moving to the start of the
  line, systematically removing the words and units, adding a trailing comma.

        ^2df fpxxf 2df fpxxf df A,^[j

    * `^[` is the ESCAPE key
    * Note the move down to a new line at then end, `j`. We don't have to use
      this approach, alternatives include starting our macro with a search, or
      using the `normal` command to run the macro on a selection of lines.
* Stop recording, `q`

With our macro recorded we can now easily run this on the remaining lines, in
our case five times, starting from the first unedited line using `5@m`. As with
many efficient uses of Vim, the power in macros really becomes apparent for
cases where the task is very repetitive.

Macros are a good way of making you think about the commands you are using. This
becomes more apparent when working on files that are varied. The example above was
originally taken from a log file that had many other lines of different data, some already in the
correct format.
To get to a relevant line for the macro to operate on I included a
search for 'StandDev' at the start of the recorded command sequence.

Remember, `@` simply
treats the proceeding register as a list of commands. This means a register used for a
macro can be viewed and edited in the normal ways. This provides a
convenient way to fix any mistakes made during the recording of a macro, by
editing the register. The [Macros](http://vim.wikia.com/wiki/Macros) page at
wikia has a good explanation of this, notably including a section on 
saving macros --- really useful if you know you will need your
finely-crafted macro for future files.

Hopefully this post has shown the advantages macros offer in Vim, especially for
those that do a lot of one-time text transformations.


_Guest post by [Martin Falkus (@mfalkus)](http://twitter.com/mfalkus)._
